In the purchasing process, there is transparency in roles.
Each employee will have a part of the purchasing process
with a clear separation of duties and, as a result,
one employee does not perform more than one role
in the purchasing process.
This is purposeful and prevents fraud and error,
particularly in the purchase card program.
Let's walk through an example of this.
Over the next few screens, you will see an example
of an item request as it appears
in the VistA inventory system.
You will see how having transparency in roles
creates checks and balances in the procurement process.
In this scenario, an order is needed for cardiology.
Employee One will request the items in the inventory system.
In this example, that would be a lab employee.
Employee Two will create a 2237 to request the order,
and that would be a lab supervisor or chief in this case.
Employee Three, the accountable officer or logistics chief
or designated staff, will approve the 2237 order.